Well, can you introduce yourself? Tell us about
how you got to lightning AI? And then
we'll talk about lightning studio.
Yeah, so I'm William Falcon. I'm the creator
of PyTorch Lightning and founder of lightning
AI. I come to AI from Research, right, like
most of us do. But before that I actually was
in the US military. So I spent about six years
going through Navy SEAL training in San Diego;
during that I got injured. The Navy
gives you a few options at that point,
the option to continue and finish was not one
of the options they gave me. As an officer,
I only get one chance to train so that
was unfortunate. But then, you know,
they gave me the option to become an Intel
officer, or leave and try something else,
so I left. I was considering things like the CIA
and other special operations, and then just kind
of found my way. It was kind of the time when
iPhones were coming out and iPhone apps. So I
started building, just started coding, coding
apps, and eventually find my way into computer
science and math at Columbia. Don't ask me how but
ended up doing my undergrad at Columbia University
in New York. And then there, I learned that you
could major computer science, right, and so I did.
Did you know a guy named Chris Wiggins?
Yeah, I do. He was at the
New York Times I want to say.
I was at The New York Times. Yeah, and Chris.
Yeah, so I know Chris, from the Center for Data
Science, I think as far as I'm from. Yeah, and so
right around the time I got to Columbia it was
like 2013, which is when deep learning had just
taken off, like the year before that I had no
idea what it was, right. But I show up to one
of my classes and, and there's this Professor
Tony Jebara, right, who ran Netflix and stuff
for a while, on the deep learning side. And
he's teaching the neural networks and I'm like,
I don't know what any of this is. And, one of the
demos he gives us, MNIST from Yann down at NYU,
right down the street. At the time it had
little carousel music and I was like, okay, I
don't really know how that's useful, right? But it
was interesting. And so I started learning about
it. A long story short, about two, three years
later, I ended up doing research in computational
neuroscience and in 20, like, 16, 17, I want to
say I went to NeurIPS in Montreal, back then it
was like a few 100 people. So I discovered the
deep learning community and somehow ended up,
kind of going into that. I had taken up a job at
Goldman during that time. So I told my manager,
hey, I wanna I want to do deep learning on the
trading floor and they were like, no, and I was
like, fine, I'll leave. That's how I went back
to school, and just did research. And then at
that time, I started building like internal
software for myself to be able to move faster
through it. That's why I eventually open sourced
which is known as PyTorch Lightning today, right.
So it started super, super early. And I ended up
doing my PhD down at NYU with Yann LeCun and then
Kyunghyun Cho as well. Then about three, four
years into it, I dropped out to start Lightning
AI. PyTorch Lightning took off. I was at Facebook
AI research at the time. And then you know,
1000s of companies were pinging me, they're using
it, they're trying to put models in production.
This is like late 2019, early 2020. And, you know,
they were super encouraging. And they basically
were like, hey, like, you should probably pursue
this and see how it goes, and, you know, we'll
support you. And they have been very supportive.
So I left Facebook, and have been focused on
Lightning since then. At the time, we were trying
to figure out how to remove a lot of this overhead
that you need to know to do deep learning,
right. Back then you had to implement your
own gradients and all these different things. So
PyTorch for Meta, solved a lot of these problems,
and then Lightning solved the scaling problem.
But then you start to know Kubernetes, and Docker,
and Cloud and a million other technologies. So I
started trying to figure out, how do you do that?
How do you it really felt like MS DOS or like a
Blackberry before an iPhone, super clunky. So I
was like, well, what is the iPhone experience?
What does that look like? And so it took us
about three years to figure it out. We tried many
things. Ultimately, we landed on Studios, which we
launched. It's been in industry, behind the scenes
for about a year, being used by enterprises. But
we made it public a few months ago. I actually
do think that Studios achieves that iPhone
leap. It is super usable. If you go to Twitter
today, on LinkedIn, and social media, you hear
people talking about it, like “revolutionary”,
“it's the next thing”. That's what we wanted
and that's what Lightning taught us. We want
you to get that 10x experience on something.
Yeah, let's go back. Explain what Pytorch
Lightning does sort of in layman's terms.
Yeah. So PyTorch is a library built by Meta,
right, or Facebook AI at the time. And,
what they saw is the ability to do computational
graphs, right. When a model learns, you have
to compute gradients, and you have to update
those gradients. So it's like, how to express a
math function and program in essence, right?
They give you the raw tools to do that. So,
it'd be me like giving you a bunch of tools to
build a car, like, here's a wheel, here's this,
here's an engine, but then you still have to
build your own car. So people come up with ways
of building their own cars. And they'll kind of
look and feel the same, but they're not standard.
Some people put like four wheels, five wheels,
three wheels, they put them in different places.
PyTorch Lightning came in as an interface,
like a front end for that, that says, No,
here's how you do it. Here are the standards, you
put wheels here, you put this here, you do this
here, and it structures your code. It's not an
abstraction. It's really just structuring the code
and organizing it for you. Then from that, you're
able to scale and that came out of many years of
research. The big deal that this unblocked was
the ability to train across 1000s of machines,
right? In 2019, that wasn't happening at Facebook.
It was like me and two other teams who were doing
this, right. I was an intern at the time and the
other teams were like professional engineers,
like ten of them, right, doing these things. And,
I got a lot of their help to building lightning
into what it is today, putting all their knowledge
into the programs. So that's how I came out. So in
2020, when I left Facebook, I think the paper we
published a year after, we trained that on like,
one or 2000 GPUs, right. And that was in 2020.
Today, people are starting to learn how to do
that but we've been doing that for a long
time. So it gives you that scaling ability,
right? So if we're use, like, web frameworks,
we basically say like, PyTorch is JavaScript
and PyTorch Lightning is React, like you
wouldn't build your own React library.
Right. Yeah, and then once that product had
traction, you started looking around and
seeing all the other tools and frameworks that
you need to work with, with PyTorch Lightning,
and you eventually brought it all
under one umbrella, in that studio?
Exactly. So just like in Web, right— I mean,
actually I’d argue that even AI is a lot harder
because you have so many moving parts; but PyTorch
Lightning just one piece, but you needed so many
things. So lightning was the first thing to
integrate other tools. We were like the first
ones to integrate, like, the ability to train
on different hardware. So before lightning,
you didn't really code your stuff, and then go
to GPUs, and then go to TPUs, today you do that,
right? That's something that we pioneered in
Lightning. So we started integrating different
accelerators which is super valuable today because
there's not enough GPUs to go around. So you kind
of have to be able to try other hardware. Then we
also brought in things like experiment managers,
like TensorBoard, Neptune, Weights and
Biases, Comet, all that stuff, right,
integrated into the system. So it started growing
into kind of like an operating system in essence,
right, that connected a lot of things together.
And that was kind of the premise behind a lot
of what we did. In Studio, we basically took
that farther and we just said, okay, and now
we're gonna bring in your cloud infrastructure
as well and then all your teams, your developers,
your data scientists, your machine learning
engineers, your designers, everyone can work
on a single thing together from the browser
but the infrastructure is at scale, right.
Last time we spoke, I had just spoken to Versel,
which has a services or a platform where you
can build a model and then access different
foundation models. It's kind of like the bedrock
at Amazon. But maybe more versatile and with more
options, and I saw Versel is in lightning studio
as one of the tools or platforms that you can
access. It's a little confusing to me. You keep
on getting these umbrellas that then give you
access to things further down, further upstream
I guess. Can you talk about this as, sort of,
hierarchy of platforms, or models, or umbrellas?
Yeah, so I'm not super familiar with how Versel
works but for what I know, it's mostly about web
development and deploying web apps, right,
like that kind of thing. That's not really
the focus of Lightning, right. So what you saw
in lightning is the ability to deploy web apps,
you can deploy React, you can deploy Angular, Next
etc. But that's not really the focus, right. The
focus of Lightning is, how do you deploy models
at scale? How do you how do you train models?
How do you fine tune them? How do you take 10
terabytes of data and do distributed processing
on it? So it's really more about the scale. What
separates Lightning is this ability to take your
studio and scale it to 1000 machines instantly,
right? That's not something that a website ever
needs. A website is happy to work on a single
machine and maybe scale a little bit, but like,
not at the scale that you need for deep learning.
So it's a fundamentally different thing. Yeah,
I think that all tools have their place, for
sure. And we’re always happy to integrate with
things. But definitely the main thing that
we're going after is the scalable workloads,
the machine learning kind of side of it, and like
through that people do have to make web apps,
and they have to make websites. So we give
them the ability to do that pretty easily
as well. But you know, our customers make
tools all the time that don’t just use one.
Yeah. And when you seem to build models, you're
talking about any machine learning model,
are you talking about foundation
models, or generative models?
So PyTorch came out before foundation models were
a thing, before Gennai was a thing, before any of
this, right. So PyTorch Lightning— In fact, one
of the foundation models to built an AI is built
using PyTorch Lightning, right. So from the very
beginning, we've been at the epicenter of GenAI.
So to answer your question, you know, our tools
scale from the simplest models, like literally
tiny, tiny models to foundation models on 1000s of
GPUs, you know, over the years to our frameworks,
and our tools have stood the test of time. And we
know that they actually do work for pretty much
any type of model today, right. And we didn't
actually know that in 2021, when Lightning came
out first, right. So that's been true, but yeah,
it's really any type of model. And I think we
definitely do like Gen AI and foundation models
better. And when I say build, that's a good,
that's a good point. I don't literally mean, you
have to build the model. Most people just grab a
model from open source, right? I don't mean that.
For researchers like, fair, you're doing your PhD,
like, sometimes I do mean that, and we do that.
But really, the majority of people are fine tuning
models, they grab something, they drop it, they
put some data on or they fine tune it for a few
hours. That's great. That's exactly one of the
bread and butters that we do on the platform.
Does Studio then allow you to do
things like connect to vector database,
you know, and implement RAG and all of
those things that people are doing today?
Yeah, so we have like a public
collection of studios that we put out,
kind of like a gallery or like a library of
these, these are templates, right? In fact,
just yesterday we put out a RAG one. So that one,
you can grab a whole data set, do RAG with it,
and there's like a UI, you can query it as well.
You can integrate an open source database or
your personal databases as well. And these things
come up a lot, like you know, pretty much anytime
there's a use case someone's like, Oh, can you do
this or that? Usually either we do it or someone
in the community will put it together in a few
days. But the platform is very extensible, right?
It's kind of like having a car and asking if you
can drive to Texas or the supermarket, like, yes!
This is open source, it's not right.
So a lot of our frameworks are open source, the
platform itself is not but a lot of the pieces of
the platform are open source, right. But the code
that we give you, the templates are open source,
ike that RAG template, that code
is free in there. You can use it,
you can take it off Lightning if you want,
right, but it already works out of the box.
Yeah, are there other things in the market
that have approached this and you've
gone, sort of one layer higher or broader?
That people may know or could relate to?
So, remember when the iPhone came out, most
things looked like blackberries and Palm Pilots,
most things that were out there at the time,
Razor phones, right, like that kind of thing.
That's what that middle of the market looks like
today. And that's because people were kind of
trying to do the same thing, just slightly
better, different ways, right? We said, No,
we're not going to do that. In fact, we like
stoped— like, I don't really care what other
people are working on in general, like we don't
follow what what the markets doing. We just talk
to our users, hear what they want to do. And
we solve it our own way, kind of like Apple,
you know, they'll solve it their way however they
want to do it. And, and no, so we really rethought
the problem from the ground up. And so we said,
like, it's got to be fundamentally different,
right? And pretty much every single tool in the
world today forces you to code on your laptop,
on your local machine and then you submit to
the cloud. And that's a paradigm that they've
all adopted, we got rid of that paradigm, we
don't let you do that. We just let you code on
the cloud and it stays on the cloud, right? You
can still connect your local IDE and code, so it
still has the local experience, but everything's
on the cloud. And that's a very, very different
paradigm. No one else is doing that. And when we
started doing that, people thought it was crazy,
right? Kind of like when Apple took keyboards
off phones, they thought it was crazy, right?
Yeah, I would imagine, though, that there are
latency issues if you're working in the cloud.
I just— this is way before machine learning,
but I used to have to do the— or, expenses at
the New York Times, you were working on a
remote platform. So everything you input,
there would be like, a little
incredibly irritating delay,
and then, that sort of thing. So how
do you overcome the latency issue?
We’ve spent a lot of time making that go
away, right. And that's why I also said,
you can also code from your laptop, so there's
zero latency. When you connect your local VS code,
your IDE, it's exactly the same experience. You
know, the market has gone through this many times,
and I've been in the other side, too.
I've been skeptical about things,
right. But, have you ever tried
Figma for example, for designing?
What’s it called?
So Figma, to design?
Yeah, I’ve never used it.
Yeah, so Figma is like a browser design
tool, right. It competes with Photoshop,
and those kinds of tools, right?
Now, when Figma came out, you know,
you ask any designer, and they're gonna be like,
Wait, like design on the browser? Why? Like,
it's not powerful enough, I have my Photoshop
on my laptop, right? Adobe bought figma for
$20 billion. Why? Right? Because that is the
future, and most things are moving that way,
you just have to be very good about how you do
it. And our team has spent a lot of time trying
to solve these issues. And I think we've landed
there, now it's gonna get better. 100%, right,
the first iPhone and the current iPhone are very
different. But we have to take the industry and
leap forward that way. And we have to say
it can be done. And we're going all in on
it because we believe it is the future. And most
people are, I would say about three years behind
now because of that, right? But we have a lot of
knowledge on how to keep improving things as well.
Yeah, and then you integrate all of the, like
copilot or I mean, GitHub Copilot, or Codex,
or all these other tools that people use while
they're coding. So you're building by coding
or you're building by putting together
different elements that are pre written?
Yeah, exactly, an iPhone has iPhone apps,
right? And you need apps to do your work,
right? You need a way to write, you need a way
to send emails, calculator, flashlight, etc. When
you're developing AI, you need apps, right? So
to us everything is an app. So you want to train
a model, there's an app for that, you want to
fine tune the model, there's an app for that,
you want to deploy a model, there's a fun app for
that, you want to do RAG, there's an app for that,
right? So every one of these things has an app
embedded in it. Depending on what you're doing,
it may be a full code experience. So
like all you want to do is code and
develop there’s literally an IDE to do
that. But if you don't want to do that,
there might be another UI. Some of these
embedding things, there's no code. You’re
just like watching plots and dots on the screen,
right? It's kind of like no code. So, just like
your Mac, sometimes you write into an app, and
sometimes you don't, you click into it, right?
So once you have this built, the studio built,
and it's got PyTorch Lightning and
all of these other apps, are you
continuing?— I guess the the unique thing is that
this is all being done in the cloud, or at least
if you're doing it locally, it's uploading
to the cloud. I mean, then you have all these
apps that you can use, but what are the other
features of Lightning Studio that are not covered
by an app? Or is it really an orchestration
layer to like, manage all these different tools?
So there are features that are not apps,
specifically, right? So the first thing is like,
you can create one studio for every task. So
you know, let's say you want to train a model,
you'll create a studio just to do that. And then
you'll create another studio, maybe to do RAG,
and then you'll create another studio maybe to
do, I don't know, fine tuning, and another studio
to serve. You can have infinite of these. In
essence, what you're doing is you're taking your
laptop— imagine if anytime you want to start a new
project, you could just have a brand new laptop,
that's what you have, right? And you can store
that laptop, and then when you want to work on
that you just open the laptop, and it's ready to
go. So that's kind of the first thing, I think
it's the most useful. I program in probably three
or four things, you know, front end, back end,
machine learning, data science, different times.
When I want to context switch, I just go turn
on that studio and I'm there. I don't have to
set anything up. So it's a lot faster. That's,
I think, probably one of the biggest features
for everyone. Things just work out of the box,
then I can share that with you. So
let's say you today, you're like, Hey,
how did you find him that model? Can you share
that with me also? Sure, duplicate my studio,
and you literally take a carbon copy
of my laptop, and it's done, right? So,
the community creates these and they share these.
You asked me about the RAG, we didn't create the
RAG someone else did. And now you can go take
their RAG up and deploy yourself in five seconds,
right? And you had to do zero work, the RAG
studio. So that's one, you have the ability
to work together. So like, let's say you and I
are coding and maybe you're learning to code,
you send me a link, just like in Google Docs, and
I go and type with you and we just code together,
right? So I can teach people how to code, I can
help junior engineers onboard easier, a lot of
things we can do there. You have the ability
to measure cost in real time. So you can say,
I don't want to spend more than $100 on this
thing. And you put a budget of 100. And we
will measure the cloud costs to a second. Ask
any person in an enterprise today, any company,
how much they spend on anything machine learning,
they can tell you. You ask us? I can say, yes,
on that thing we spend $50,000, $271, that's it.
No question asked, right. It's all there. And then
there's a bunch of team management stuff, like
who can see what when, or what levels of the org,
who was an admin, who isn't, what data can they
see, what can they not see, right? The ability to
connect to different data sources like Snowflake
and Databricks data, and then bring in data from
S3, upload your own data, right? So all of that
gets ingested. So yeah, Lightning, in essence,
is kind of like an operating system. It just
becomes the center that everything kind of comes
together. And then you can create studios that
are specialized to specific tasks that you need.
Yeah, and you were saying that without
Lightning studio, people would have to
set all this up themselves. Can you walk
me through a use case, to build something,
and the steps that you would take, and then
how that is different with Lightning Studio?
Yeah, so let's say mixed trail, I think is one of
the best models out there, came out, and this is
the mixture of experts. And let's say you want to
deploy that model, right? And for you to do that
you could have an option. You can either go to one
of these API companies and then hit a button and
then they'll deploy it for you. But you are kind
of subject to them. What if they go down? Like,
OpenAI goes down all the time, right? So what
happens? Is your app going to stop working?
Your service is done, right. So do you really want
to give that up? I don't, I'm not sure, right. So
that's your first option. Second option is you go
find the code in open source and then you download
it to your laptop and then you like set it up
and try to get it to work, then you try to find
a cloud machine somewhere, and then you go to that
cloud machine and you got to set it all up again,
and then maybe it doesn't work. And you spend like
a week or two doing this. It's extremely hard,
right? On Lightning, you go to Studios, there's
the gallery there with all the templates,
you find the MOE template, you click on it,
you press duplicate, takes about 35 seconds,
it's up and running, and the model’s already
deployed and everything there, and you have the
code fully. So, you can delete the code if you
want. But it's fully transparent to you. So you
have full control over it. You can hack it, or you
can leave it alone and leave it how it is, right.
Yeah, and you said that there's been a very strong
response, how big is that? Well, first of all,
how do you charge? Is there a freemium layer? And
then you pay for different services, or features?
Yeah, so we have four different tiers. So there's
a free tier, so everyone, when they sign up,
they get a free tier, they automatically can
run a studio for free anytime of the day, right,
CPU studio. They literally could code on the cloud
all day long. They can make infinite studios and
they can only run one at a time. So if you want
to run multiple, then you're going to use credits,
right? So you have to buy credits. You pay as you
go as you need them. We also give you 15 credits,
right. But 15 credits means you can basically
run about 22 GPU hours per month, which is a lot,
right? Like, I don't think most people need that.
So you have the 15 free credits. So in essence,
you're gonna get one free running Studio
and 22 GPU hours every month that you can
use for free. And then when you need more
advanced features, or you need more hours,
you buy more credits or you upgrade to the
different tiers, right. If you're a company,
there's stuff around security and the way that you
work with people that are in the different tiers,
as well. What we wanted to do is get back to
the open source community. I do think that
there's a big accessibility problem. I'm from
South America, right. And if you tell me that
I can get a GPU in Venezuela, like, it's not
going to happen but I can through Lightning.
And so now you've allowed people in developing
countries to like, participate in this as well
and do something, which is cool. And, and then
after that, you have the ability to integrate
all the open source stuff as well, right.
So it's, I think, the best of both worlds.
Yeah, and how big is the community
now, including freemium users?
So the PyTorch Lightning community is about
1 to 2 million people across the world,
that's on the open source side as well.
So the platform just became public like,
two months ago and we already have about 50,000
people on there, right. So it's growing extremely
fast. Some people might end up in a waitlist if
we can't verify you, for whatever reason. So we're
trying to get people off the waitlist as much
as we can. I think probably about 20 or 30,000
of them are still on the waitlist. So we have
to go through and like, do that. But you know,
we're moving as fast as we can. And we're a little
overwhelmed at the moment but overall it's been
really, really positive and overwhelming, right?
It's kind of what we saw when we first launched
PyTorch Lightning in the very beginning, it
just went viral on its own. Because, you know,
people appreciate good design, they appreciate
usability, especially in a world where like,
you know, I mean, when I came into AI and I saw
the way that people were working, I was like,
How? It just really bothered me and, like, I hate
using clunky things, right. And so I just wanted
to make something that was extremely easy for the
world to use so that they could focus on science,
they could focus on the models, they could
focus on the business problem, instead of
like learning Kubernetes, and Docker, and this
and that, right? Even most hardcore engineers,
when they get on they're like, Oh, my God, thank
God! Like yes, it was intellectually curious to
know these things but it really was so annoying
for years that I don't want to deal with it.
Yeah, you mentioned Weights & Biases, I had a
conversation with the Weights & Biases guys and
that's, that's on the platform. They do things
like monitoring. A lot of the ML ops stuff,
which now is becoming LLM ops, and maybe
it'll be LMM ops at some point. Do you
do any of that? Version Control monitoring
after deployment, things like that, or again,
you're letting people like Weights and
Biases. do that through the Studio?
Yeah, so they're apps, right, they’re partnered
with us. So, we don't provide that capability. We
provide a few apps that do those things. So on
the platform, people use TensorBoard, which is
open source. They do use Weights & Biases. What
else did they use? They use things like Comet,
they use MLflow. But yeah, those are all
integrated and people can use them out of the box.
Yeah, so last time we spoke it
seemed that you were about to
release something new on the platform, or
am I mistaken? I talk to so many people.
Yeah, I mean, we've released a
lot of stuff already. I mean,
we have many cool things that are
coming in the next few months for
sure but right now people are just
getting started to even try Studios.
Right, and how big is your team?
Yeah, very small. So about 40 people,
right, which is cool. Remember,
I grew up in special operations, right?
SEAL teams are very small. You have very,
very talented people who just really
worked together well and internally,
the company structure is how the SEAL teams are
structured actually, because that's kind of the
management style that I know. So everyone moves
aggressively fast. Everyone is a team player,
very collaborative. And we hire the best people
in the world. We love to train them and, you know,
I think one thing that I do is teach them how
to work really, really well as a team, right,
which is something that I thought was crazy
how the civilian world doesn't really have
that. There's a lot of individuals working on a
team, but not an actual team working together.
Yeah, that's interesting.Generative
AI and world models are coming on,
this space is moving very quickly.
How do you keep the studio relevant
as the research moves, and then
that research becomes adopted?
Well, remember, that was the goal of the
Studio, is to build an integration platform,
right? So inherently, it is designed to do that.
So actually, if you don't use Studio, you probably
will fall behind. I'll give you an example. Just
this week, there were two models released, there
was one from Alan AI, and there was another one,
right, he Facebook one, the Code LLaMA. On the
day that the Code LLaMA model was released,
within an hour or two, we had a studio out,
a template already ready to go with it. Then
when the other one was released from Alan AI,
within an hour or two, we had another one out.
So like, we can get you that latest AI stuff,
literally within a day, like worst case scenario,
no matter what it is, RAG, you know, new database,
something crazy comes out, we can always integrate
it, because it is built for integrations first,
at the end of the day. And that's that that's
the fundamental problem that most platforms have,
is their point solutions. They just do
the one thing. They're like, a calculator,
and then when a flashlight comes out,
they're trying to stick a flashlight
in a calculator and you're like,
No, it doesn't really work, right?
Yeah, actually, that's interesting,
because it also gives people a
central source of knowledge. So, they
don't have to be reading about every new
tool or new technique that comes out, it'll
appear in Lightning Studio. Is that right?
Yes
And I would imagine there's documentation,
or tutorials, or something to help people
understand when something new appears?
Yes, and we'll do the work to; vet something
is real or not, most of us are researchers,
most of us come from academia,
like, you know, PhDs and that's
something we have related. So we can pretty
quickly know when something's hype or not,
and we will vet things. We'll experiment with
everything but we’ll decide what actually
sticks around or not. So, you know, you can
kind of defer that work to us as a company.
Yeah, and you also are in a position to see what
people are using the platform for. Does that give
you visibility into where the markets going,
what's popular? What's hot? That sort of thing?
Yeah, I mean, look, we obviously don't look
at people's code or anything like that,
right. So I think, what I can tell is when we
get new customers who like are excited to use
a platform that kind of generally tell us
what they're working on? Not the details,
but like, what they're trying to do. And yeah, I
mean, we see trends, I will say that, you know,
I come from research and research is leading
enterprise usually. So even people who come in,
they're already like six months behind. So
they're talking to me about things that were
out many months ago. And, and it's rare that I
find a new team who's like right on it with like,
the thing from that week, who’s like thinking
about it. And honestly, as a business,
you shouldn't be operating at the bleeding
edge. You shouldn't be a little bit behind.
But researchers are always kind of trying
the new stuff and we have researchers on the
platform because it's one of the best tools for
R&D and, like, iterative work. And so we see a
lot of stuff that they do and we collaborate with
them on papers as well. And then those papers get
published. So we're like at the bleeding edge with
them a lot of times as well. But you know, there's
no news there. Its a lot of the same stuff,
fine tuning, pre training, deploying, right?
It's a lot of the same. And then like whether
use RAG or not, it's a detail usually, like all
these tools that come out, they’re details to
a lot of the ways that these things are done.
I had a conversation this morning with a guy who
was talking about using multiple models, and then
having a consensus layer that, sort of, reconciles
contradictions within the outputs from several
models and comes up with an average or with a—
can that kind of thing be done through Lightning?
Yeah, so that's, there are few terms for that, but
that's probably mixture of experts (MoE) is he's
referring to. And yeah, so it's just about
training different models, and then somehow
aggregating their outputs, you can either average
time or you can have another model do consensus
for all those models. So that mixtural model, the
mixtural MoE, that's exactly what it does. It has
eight models and it does that. You know, when
people talk about Chat GPT and they compare with
open source, it's actually an unfair comparison
because Chat GPT behind the scenes, it's likely
like 30 models that are all collaborating to do
stuff, right? And then you compare that with,
like, one model? Well, it's not true, you got to
compare it to a collection of models, right? So
you can do that. And it is actually probably one
of the only platforms if not the only platform
that can build systems because every other
platform in the world today can only do like,
one thing, like a model, right? But they can't
connect things, whereas lightning can keep systems
kind of going and have many of them working
together, right? So the RAG example that we had,
it's a good example, where on one studio you
deploy the model and then on a separate studio,
you have the RAG system completely isolated
and they're talking to each other, right.
Oh, yeah, that's fascinating. How are you
funded? I mean, was this costly to build?
Very expensive. So yeah, we've raised about
70 million so far, from Index Venture or Spin
Capital, Coatue and a bunch of amazing angels.
Yeah, like, really, really great angels and,
you know, I would say, most enterprises
that we work with have spent, probably even
100 million easily, to build some version of
this internally. And then their headcount is
crazy to maintain these things, right. So
if you want to build something like this,
you probably have to invest about $100
million, and like two or three years
to try to do it. And most companies have
tried that. And today, if they tried it,
they hate it, all of them and they're trying
to get rid of it somehow, right. And so they're
looking to us to replace that. Even the world's
largest banks for example, that we work with,
they've invested a lot of money, so much. It's
extremely difficult to build. The thing is,
you look at it, it's pretty easy, right? It looks
looks simple, but the iPhone looks simple. Right?
Yeah, Wow, and so Studio came out, it
was publicly available in December?
And your community's growing. What, what's
next? I mean, where does this go? Is it
just a matter of keeping up with all the
tools that are appearing on the market?
Yeah, I mean, we want studio to be the way that
you develop and code, that's it. I think we're
successful, when you’ll get so annoyed at having
to set things up on your laptop, on your local
machine. You know, you're like, “Oh, I gotta
start a work project”, and you'd rather just
go to Lightning, turn on a studio, and you know,
you're done, instead of trying to mess around with
your local machine. We're getting there already
with a lot of people but hopefully by the end
of the year this is the standard for everyone in
the world, they understand it. Now it will take
probably more years for that to reach everyone but
like, how long did it take the market to convince
BlackBerry users that keyboards were not a good
idea, right? It took a while but today we know
that that opened up a lot of doors, right.
So when there are paradigm shifts that occur,
it takes a while for the market to catch up.
But in the long term, it is the better thing.
Yeah, and you have some major enterprises
with a lot of developers using the Studio?
Yeah, we have quite a few customers all the
way from small startups to huge enterprises.
Probably one of the largest ones that
we have, it's like a top bank, top two,
three bank and they have at least four or 5000
data scientists internally that do ML and they
have 1000s of use cases. And so we're currently
undergoing, like, a full platform deployment
there as well, which is cool to see because it
is a massive scale, just in that one customer.
Yeah, and this is a little off topic but I
talked to somebody frequently about unit testing;
which is kind of something people don't
talk a lot about, it takes a lot of
time. Does this support unit testing tools,
automated unit testing, or things like that?
Yeah, so we actually run, so PyTorch Lightning,
all our open source projects that live on GitHub,
they have rigorous unit tests and they have
CI/CDs because a lot of companies depend on
them. So we run probably PyTorch Lightning,
on any given day, we run, I don't know,
5000 tests per pull requests and there are
probably a few dozen pull requests. So we're
spinning up 1000s of machines a day just
to test open source frameworks. Recently,
we started switching to using studios for
a lot of those. So we're even getting off
those platforms, because it's a lot easier
and faster for us to do that, and cheaper.
Yeah, okay, I'm running out of questions to ask.
No, good. Well, I'll tell you some other
interesting use cases, because people always
hack with new tools, right? So coding interviews,
so we've actually started doing our coding
interviews in Studios, which is cool. So like,
if you interview for us, and you're an engineer,
you'll get on a studio and you’ll code with me,
right? And it's probably the only tool you can do
that with for machine learning because like,
what other tool can you just run GPUs on and
code together? You can't, so if you're testing
a machine learning engineer, who's joining your
company, I mean, this is kind of the only way
to get them to actually do real world work on
that interview to see how they work. So you can do
things like, you set up a model and you break it
and you see how they debug it and understand the
GPU profiling, and all these different things,
right. So that's something cool that people
started doing, not just us, a few other customers.
Hackathons is a big one as well. So turns out,
you know, if you want to set up a hackathon,
you can go set up a bunch of studios for everyone
and then they go off, and you give them credits,
and it's good. Classes, so right now there's, I
won't say which one but you can probably guess,
big professor from NYU, teaching a big deep
learning class, using Studio in that class. And,
you know, it's obviously from our lab. And
so it's cool to see how they're doing it,
and then they're a bunch of other universities
as well, that are doing it. But imagine,
as an undergrad, Columbia, when I was there,
they didn’t really have a compute cluster.
I don't know if they still do, they might,
a little one, and you're learning computer
science and you have to do everything locally.
It's like, super slow and hard right? Now,
professors can just be like, here's a studio with
your homework on it, like, go solve it there,
and they could just immediately get started. So
I think it'll accelerate education a lot as well.
Yeah, that's fascinating. Okay, is
there anything else I should ask?
No, I think all these were good questions. I'll
take a minute just to say, about open source,
like we've been behind open source forever. So
most people today use a lot of libraries out
there. And they use things like a trainer, or they
use different interfaces that they code with. And,
you know, a lot of those ideas came from PyTorch
Lightning in 2019. And we introduced this to the
world. And I think like, what's that's done, is
really standardize the way people do AI. And I
think it's great because like, you know, it's
not just us, a lot of other companies as well
have been pushing really hard and getting open
source to be to be big and I really do want to ask
everyone who's listening to support open source
not just us, but every company who's doing it
because I think we're at a critical junction where
the last thing you want is to have one or two
companies like own key IP of models or something
like that. It's like not having an Apple and then
having IBM be the only one you can get computers
from, like, that would be crazy right? And so I
think the world has to come together and keep
AI open source and continue to support things.
And I think Meta and my old lab at Facebook,
they're probably doing the most out of anyone,
which is great; but I think companies should not
be scared of that and they should understand that
it's actually better for their business. Go look
at Meta stock today, like, probably 4Xed since
they started doing AI and working on open source
as well. It's a net benefit for the world,